At the beginning of this lecture, let's make sure that you have a fresh thinker session started.
If you need to fetch models by more criteria than just a model ID, then you need to use the query builder.
CareerBuilder lets you build ESKIL queries using object oriented way by fluently calling methods.
Their model classes have a built in query builder.
The query builder itself is a class called builder.
It has methods like were select or join, which are basically Ezekial keywords.
So whatever you'd expect from a school can be found as a query builder method.
Before we go further, we would need to create some more models in the database as otherwise it might
be harder to really get how what we will explain works.
For this, I need you to type in Tinker.
What I am typing.
So that's user factor count five, create and hit enter.
This will create and save five user models with randomly generated data using Laravel Model Factory.
We will talk about model factories later.
So don't worry about this at all.
Now, we just had to do it to be able to continue.
Now back to the query builder.
Let's start by calling the worm method on the user model, which allows to specify some query criteria
so we would fetch.
By BIID, where it is equal or greater down to.
Every time you call query builder method on the model statically, it creates a new instance of the
builder class, then calling subsequent methods on that object builds up to query.
Then you might want to start using order by.
By the idea, but maybe in descending order, so the tests shortcut when your quarry is done, you need
to call the get method on the builder object only then the quarry is actually run against the database.
That's very important to remember.
Data reading queries always return a collection object.
There it is.
So, as you see, there is the collection as a result.
Models are sorted by ideas in descending order, and we only have models that have to ID bigger than
bigger or equal to.
Now, the query builder is really useful when you need to build conditional queries.
For example, to allow users to sort or filter a specific blog posts, you might combine query parameters
with calling specific where rebuilder methods.
This is much simpler and much more elegant than stitching together strings with Roskill.